Polaris is a setting for a computer role playing game inspired by Dragon Age Origins and Mass Effect and KOTOR, with setting inspiration from Lady Blackbird, Fallout, and Frostpunk. It takes place on a post-apocalyptic Svalbard where competing factions fight to survive. It begins on a Syndicate slave ship that's under attack - you're an enslaved person on the ship, and you escape during the attack (your cell is struck open by a shell). The attackers are the Blight, zombified creatures that attack violently under the command of mysterious, floating "Heralds", very powerful psionic humanoids. You fight your way off the ship (gathering 2 companions along the way).

You escape to Bear Island ("Ursa Major"), a corrupt island city run behind the scenes by the Syndicate where the mayor is working on a mysterious huge project. The walled city is recently under siege by the Blight, and is occasionally sending waves of zombies against the battlements. You gather 1 new companion here. You pursue some quests and help some people in Ursa Major, ultimately escaping in a Syndicate airship.

Next, you travel to the capital of the Empire (on Svalbard) to warn the Polar Council that the Blight is coming and headed towards Svalbard. You discover that the families that run the city states of the empire are in disarray for various reasons. You must unite them under one banner to turn the Blight back. Each city state is a new area you can travel to, and you make decisions in each place to determine the final battle.